abject :: 1] Sunk to a low condition; despicable: an abject coward. 2] Hopelessly low; wretched: abj
abjure :: To renounce rights on oath or give up publicly opinion, stance.
abnegate :: Deny oneself; renounce
abrasive :: Tending to wear down or rub away: the abrasive action of an emery board.
abrogate :: Repeal, cancel. Abrogation of the treaty with a foreign power. The word differs in meaning
absolve :: 1] To free from a debt, obligation, promise; or ruling: His illness absolved him from atte
abstinence :: Refraining from doing without certain foods, drinks, or pleasures: He was proud of his abs
abut :: To touch or join at the edge or side; border: Our farm abuts our neighbor's property.
accost :: To approach and speak to: A beggar accosted him in the street. address, Usage: The word ac
accouterments :: soldier's equipment, other than clothing and weaponary: accessory, napsacks, canteens, gun
accrue :: 1] To come as a natural result, addition, or advantage: Many benefits accrued to the natio
acme :: The highest point: A Rolls Royce is considered the acme of height, automotive excellence.
acolyte :: An attendant, follower or helper, generally of an important person.
acrid :: 1] Disagreeably sharp, bitter, or pungent: the acrid odor of acid. 2] Sharp and biting in 
actuate :: 1] To set into action or motion: a lever actuated by an electric move, current. 2] To infl
acumen :: Shrewdness in understanding or dealing with a situation: Business acumen.
adduce :: To bring forward examples, reason, or proof for consideration in cite, a discussion or ana
adroit :: Skillful or prepared in the use of bodily or mental powers; dexterous or expert: adroit in
adventitious* :: Accidental, coming by chance. What the girl's parents look for in the boy is much more tha
aegis :: With the partronage or support. The students spearheaded a auspices, campaign under the ae
affectation* :: An artificial display or manner: Grandfather's love of classical music was mere affectatio
affluence :: Abundant wealth: New cars and expensive homes attest to the opulence, affluence of a natio
affray :: A noisy and violent fight, especially in a public place. The men were charged with causing
affront :: To insult openly or purposely. They were affronted by their abrupt dismissal.
aficionado :: Devoted follower of some sport. Cricket aficionados have received the news of Australia pu
agnostic :: One who believes that there can be no proof of the existence of - God, but does not deny t
alibi :: 1] A legal defense by which an accused person tries to show that he was somewhere else whe
allege :: 1] To assert as true in the absence of proof. They alleged that he had been seen purchasin
allude :: To make direct or casual mention (used with 'to'): At the interview, she alluded to her fa
ally :: 1] To affiliate in a common cause or defense: Political bosses often join, ally themselves
altercation :: A heated dispute, wrangling (often accompanied by blows): The controversy, union meeting r
alternate* :: 1] To follow or cause to follow one another by turns: Good and bad times alternate. 2] To 
amenable :: Willing to be persuaded or to submit to direction or authority: The union was amenable to 
amicable :: Characterised by goodwill or friendship: Both parties reached an amicable settlement to th
amorphous :: Having no clear shape, structure, or boundaries: a large and nebulous, amorphous departmen
amplitude :: 1] Breadth or width: To Imran's yorkers, Vishy unleashed the full gamut, amplitude of his 
anchorite :: A person who lives alone, apart from society, for religious ascetic, meditation; a hermit;
angst :: An anxious, often neurotic feeling, caused by worrying about anxiety the state of the worl
antagonistic :: Being hostile; acting in opposition.
antithesis :: 1] The direct opposite; a strong contrast: Pleasure is the antithesis of pain. 2] Oppositi
aphorism :: A short and clever or witty sentence which expresses a general maxim, truth. ... The prope
apocalyptic :: Of, like, or having to do with a revelation: a sermon with almost prophetic, apocalyptic o
apostasy :: Desertion of one's faith, religion, party, principles, etc.
apposite :: Strikingly appropriate; apt. An apposite remark.
arable :: Capable of being plowed or cultivated: Rocky soil is usually not arable.
arbitrary :: 1] Based merely on one's own opinion, judgment, prejudice, etc: 1] When he finally learned
arcane :: Secret; hidden
archaic :: 1] Belonging to an earlier period and no longer in common use, as 1] a word or phrase: 'Me
archetype :: A first model, form, or pattern from which others are derived ideal, or copied: Daniel Boo
ardor* :: Strong emotion or enthusiasm: He spoke of his country with the passion, ardor of a true pa
arraign* :: To call into court to answer to a charge or accusation: The prisoner will be arraigned tom
arrant :: Out-and-out; thorough (used in a negative sense): arrant nonsense; arrant fool.
array :: An array of things or people, especially when they are impressive or attractive: They look
arrogate :: Take or claim unjustly: She arrogated her father's tea estates to herself.
artifice :: The clever use of tricks to deceive
askance :: 1] With distrust: Farmers look askance at city slickers. 2] With a side glance, obliquely:
assay :: 1] To test the fineness, purity 2] An appraisal of the state of affairs 3] A trial or an a
astute :: Having or coming from a shrewd, clever mind: Psychiatrists are sharp, astute observers of 
attrition :: 1] A gradual wearing down or weakening: a war of attrition; the attrition of a nation's ec
augment :: To make or become greater, as in size, number, or amount: He increase, augmented his small
augur :: 1] A person who foretells the future. 2] To be a sign or omen of: Her good nature augurs l
august :: 1] Inspiring awe or reverence, imposing: the august aura of the old cathedral. 2] Of high 
autarchy :: Absolute rule or sovereignty; autocracy, despotism. Note that this word differs in meaning
avant-garde :: The group, especially in the arts, regarded as being the most experimental: Op art and pop
avarice :: Passion for accumulating riches: greed: Some politicians are motivated by avarice.
avid :: 1] Eager; enthusiastic: He was an avid football fan. 2] Greedy: The whole family was avid 
avocation :: A casual or occasional occupation: Her avocation was collecting hobby, stamps.
awry :: 1] Toward one side: Your cap is awry. 2] Wrong; out of the right course: Our picnic plans 
axiom :: A self-evident or universally recognized truth: It is an axiom that nature abhors a vacuum
bacchanal :: Wild, drunken merry-making. Etym: From the Roman festival debauch, Bacchanalia, in honour 
badger :: To nag at or harass: He badgered me into going to a football game with him.
baffle :: To confuse, bewilder, perplex: The unsolved crime baffled the befuddle, police.
bailiwick :: One's particular area of activity, authority or interest; generally used in the context of
balderdash :: Senseless talk or writing; nonsense
baleful :: Evil, sinister, harmful. The prisoner gave the judge a baleful look.
balk :: 1] To stop short and refuse to proceed or take action: The donkey balked when he saw the s
baloney :: Nonsense: The plot of the film is pure baloney.
bamboozle :: To deceive or cheat by trickery; dupe; to confuse; to puzzle: Their sermons were intended 
bane :: The cause of distress, death or ruin; curse. The costly system of and folders is the bane 
banter :: Playful ridicule: He was amused by their banter about his late arrival.
barb :: Pointedness or sting, as of wit; also, a stinging remark: attacking political candidates w
baroque :: Of or characteristic of the art and architecture of the 17th century, which was elaboratel
bastion :: 1] In fortifications, the part of a rampart that projects so as to a wider firing range. 2
bathos :: A literary term; an anticlimax or sudden descent from the sublime to the commonplace.
bawdy :: Obscene language.
beatific :: Giving or expressing blessedness or bliss: the Madonna's beatific smile.
becoming :: Appropriate or attractive: a very becoming, dress.
bedlam :: Scene of uproar with noise and confusion: A nightmarish bedlam of shrieking, weeping and v
beguile :: Mislead by cheating or tricking. He used newspapers to beguile the readers into buying sha
behemoth :: Any large beast or thing.
behoove :: To be necessary, fit, or proper (used impersonally): It behooves me to leave before I over
beleaguer :: 1] To force: The town was beleaguered for two weeks before 1] beset, friendly troops arriv
bellicose :: Having or showing a ready disposition to fight.
bemused :: Confused, bewildered: She was faintly bemused by his questions. baffled, She gave him a be
benchmark :: Something whose quality, quantity, or capability is known and criterion, which can therefo
benediction :: The expression of a blessing or good wishes: He received his approval, father's benedictio
beneficence* :: Goodness or kindness: Her beneficence touched everyone around charity, her.
beneficial :: Helpful: Country air is beneficial to health.
benign* :: 1] Favorable or mild: a benign influence; a benign climate. 2] Not dangerous or harmful: a
bequeath :: To leave as an inheritance: In his will he bequeathed his estate to his son. Moral concept
berate* :: To scold severely: She berated him for his cowardice.
bereavement :: State of sorrow over the death or departure of a loved one. The mourning young widow bore 
berserk :: In a frenzy of wild rage; violently destructive: The wounded beast went berserk with pain.
bete noire :: Aperson or thing feared or disliked and avoided :... declaration of personal assets to the
bigotry :: Bitter, hostile prejudice, as against a group race, religion, etc: shameless bigotry of th
bilious :: Peevish in temper: a bilious old codger.
bizarre :: Very different from what is usual or normal: bizarre art forms.
blanch :: To whiten, turn pale: The men returned from the graveyard, their pale faces blanched.
blase :: Someone who is blase shows no excitement, interest or pleasure bored, in things that other
blatant :: 1] Disagreeably loud: a blatant jukebox. 2] Completely or crassly obvious: Some young peop
bleak :: Cold; dismal; barren: a bleak coast: The future looks pretty bleak.
blithe :: Joyous, gay: a blithe spirit.
bohemian* :: A person, especially an artist, poet, etc. who lives in an nonconformist unconventional, n
bon mot :: (From French) An apt, clever, or witty remark: His speech was - spiced with bons mots and 
bondage :: Slavery, serfdom. How distinctly 'bond' and 'bondage' differ in their meanings is brought 
bowdlerize :: To prudishly remove supposedly objectionable matter from a censor, manuscript, etc.: The c
braggadocio :: Empty boasting, or a person who engages in such boasting: the braggadocio of a teenager.
bravado :: A pretense of bravery: His attempt at resistance was sheer bravado.
bravura :: 1] A bold attempt or display of daring; dashing: A brilliant display of bravura and temper
brawl :: A noisy quarrel or fight: A drunken brawl.
breakthrough :: A major advance in knowledge or negotiations: then the discovery, breakthrough came with E
broach :: 1] To mention or suggest for the first time: He finally broached subject of marriage. 2] T
brook :: Tolerate, allow.: He is too authoritarian in his ways to brook any interference in his pla
bucolic :: Rustic; of country life and farming: In his Wessex novels, Thomas Hardy depicts scenes of 
bug :: To annoy, bother, or anger: I have been seeing you sit at the same place every day for the
bumptious :: Disagreeably conceited or self-important: The bumptious customs officials.
bungle :: The thief bungled and set off the alarm while trying to open the
buoyancy :: Highness of spirits; cheerfulness: his buoyancy at finding a new job.
burnish* :: To polish by rubbing; make or become shiny or lustrous: to burnish metal: The burnished sh
bustle :: Excited activity; noisy stir: the bustle of a crowded market.
cabal :: 1] A number of persons secretly united in a plot or plan, especially one to overthrow a ru
cache :: 1] To conceal or store in a secret place: My grandfather cached accrue, silver dollars in 
cadence :: 1] Rhythmic or measured flow or beat.: He tapped his feet in tune with the cadence of the 
cahoots :: Questionable or illegal collaboration. In cahoots with a dishonest politician.
caitiff :: A mean, evil or cowardly person.
cajole :: To coax with flattery: She begged and cajoled her parents until consented to let her go to
callow :: Inexperienced: immature. A callow youth is an immature or inexperienced one.
caper :: 1] Wild foolish action or prank 2] A crime or illegal activity.
capitulate :: To surrender, often on stipulated terms: The enemy capitulated after being promised fair t
carte blanche :: Unrestricted authority: They gave him carte blanche to print - controversial views in the 
categorical :: Definite: unambiguously explicit and direct. his categorical denial of the charges.
catharsis :: A purifying or purging of pity, terror, or other emotions, through witnessing a work of ar
catholic :: 1] Broad-minded or liberal: a catholic respect for different customs. 2] Broad or universa
cavil :: To find fault with or raise trivial objections to: He caviled every departure from the let
chagrin :: 1] A feeling of annoyance or embarassment caused by failure, disappointment, etc.: the cha
cheeseparing :: Miserly, stingy. Something of little or no value; Stinginess; parsimony.
chide :: To scold: to chide a child for being lazy.
chimera :: Wild or impossible idea or fancy.
choleric :: Often angry.: His choleric bouts often kept his sons away.
churlish :: Rude and ill-tempered: a churlish brute who muttered menacingly when asked to move.
chutzpah :: Tremendous self-confidence; barefaced effrontery; shameless audacity
circumlocution :: direct or roundabout expression involving the use of more words an necessary: 'Refrain fro
clairvoyant :: Having alleged unnatural powers to see or know things not present to the senses.
coalesce :: To grow or come together into one: A number of small businesses coalesced into a large cor
cogitate :: Consider carefully and deeply; reflect upon; turn over in one's
cognizant :: Having knowledge, especially special or certain knowledge as from first-hand sources (used
cohere :: 1] To stick or hold firmly together: The grains of damp salt 2] To be logically connected;
coincident :: 1] Occurring at exactly the same time: It was coincident that he arrived at the same time 
collate :: 1] To assemble pages of a manuscript, etc. in proper order: The secretary collated the loo
colossal :: 1] Of immense size: a colossal skyscraper. 2] Informal: Beyond comprehension or credibilit
comely :: Of pleasing appearance; handsome; graceful: Barbara and Joe were a comely young couple.
commiserate :: 1] To feel or express pity for: Don't just commiserate, help the survivors. 2] To sympathi
complacent :: Satisfied with oneself; smug: Early success made him complacent and, from then on he never
concomitant :: Accompanying. The infirmities that are concomitants of old age.
concord :: Unity of feeling; agreement: The U.N. strives to achieve concord among nations.
condescend :: 1] To come down voluntarily to equal terms with inferiors: The 2] prince often condescende
confabulate :: To talk together in an informal way; chat
confute :: To prove (statement, person) wrong. He confuted Mark's statement by reading out figures fr
congeal :: To change from a fluid to a solid condition: The custard congealed after being refrigerate
congenial :: 1] Having similar character, nature, or tastes: a congenial group 1] of friends. 2] Suited
conjecture :: Guess: His conjecture that Alice would have joined the excursion party came true ... Under
consecrate :: 1] To cause to be revered, honored, or treated as sacred. King 1] Edward consecrated the o
consort :: 1] A spouse, companion, or escort: Prince Albert was Queen associate, Victoria's consort. 
construe :: To interpret: They construed his silence as consent.
contingent :: Dependent upon an uncertain event, condition, or outcome: An fortuitous, increase in your 
contumacy :: Obstinate resistance, stubborn disobedience.
contumely :: Abusive language or treatment; scornful insult. If Europeans face this kind of contumely i
convalescence :: e A gradual recovery after the termination of an illness or after surgery, or the period o
convivial :: Characterised by good fellowship; a convivial college reunion.
copious :: Plentiful; consisting of a large quantity or rich assortment
cornucopia :: A symbol of abundance, represented as a curved horn overflowing horn with fruits, vegetabl
corporal :: Of the human body. Corporal punishment in school is now banned by law. 'Corporal' is diffe
covenant :: An agreement entered into by two or more persons or parties: a pact, covenant among neighb
crass :: Grossly vulgar or stupid: She always makes crass remarks about crude, the cost of things;
credible :: 1] Capable of being delivered: He told a credible story to explain his delay. 2] Worthy of
credo :: A set of beliefs; creed: the credo of a socialist.
crotchet :: An odd or perverse notion or whim: One of the old man's crotchets was going to bed with al
cynosure :: Centre of attraction. At the Navy Ball, She was the cynosure of all star, eyes.
dawdle :: To waste time in slow trifling: Hurry up, don't dawdle.
debauch :: 1] To corrupt in morals or principles: debauched by evil associates. 1] 2] To overindulge 
debrief :: To receive information from (a pilot emissary, intelligence agent, etc.) concerning flight
decadence :: A process or period of deterioration or decline, as in art or morals: the decadence of the
defamation :: Slanderous abuse of the character or reputation of an individual group: The politician sue
delineation :: Pictorial or verbal portrayal: delineation of a face; delineation character.
demagogue :: A leader who influences the populace by appealing to prejudices and passion: Hitler was a 
denotation :: The literal meaning of a word, as distinguished from its connotation (what it suggests): T
denouement :: Final outcome of a story or play; a French word borrowed by English.
depravity :: Wickedness or sexual immortality: Nero's depravity.
derelict :: 1] Neglectful; remiss: The filthy house proved she was derelict performing household chore
desecrate :: To treat sacrilegiously something held sacred: to desecrate the shrine by herding goats in
despicable :: Contemptible, vile: despicable men who profit by human suffering.
devious :: 1] Winding or leading away from the regular, straight, or direct course: a devious country
diaphanous :: So thin in substance that light shows though: a diaphanous curtain.
disheveled :: Untidy or unkempt: After traveling by train for three days, he looked somewhat disheveled.
dissipate :: 1] To break up and scatter away: With daylight, their fears 1] dissipated. 2] To spend was
dolorous :: Mournful; sad: the dolorous expression of a basset hound.
double entendre :: dre A term with two meanings, especially when one of them has risque double or indecorous 
dregs :: 1] The sediment of liquids, especially of beverages: the dregs of wine. 2] The poorest or 
duress :: Coercion or compulsion by means of force or threats: a confession extracted under duress.
efface :: 1] To rub out, as written characters: a tombstone inscription effaced 1] by time. 2] To de
effete :: 1] Having lost strength, vitality, creativity, etc.: effete noblemen unable to perform any
effulgent :: Shining brilliantly: the effulgent beauty of her smile.
effusive :: Overflowing with sentiment or enthusiasm: He was embarrassed gushing, by her effusive intr
egoism :: 1] Great concern for one's own welfare and interests; selfishness: the egoism of a person 
elan :: Spirited self-assurance; verve, dash: it was his revolutionary elan, fervor, his ruthless 
emaciated :: Very thin or wasted away, as from illness or poor nutrition.
emasculate :: Weaken or impoverish. The Moghul empire in the post - Aurangzeb cripple, period was emascu
embezzle :: To take illegally for one's own use another person's money, steal, appropriate securities,
encomium :: A formal expression of praise: political encomiums exchanged by eulogy, panegyric members 
ennui :: Weary listlessness or discontent; boredom: Retired people without outside interests may su
epicure :: A person given to luxurious living and discriminating gratification of the senses; especia
errant :: 1] Roving or wandering, especially in search of adventure: a knight errant. 2] Straying fr
ersatz :: Substitute, and usually inferior: Bitter ersatz coffee was all we had during World War II.
eschew :: To shun, as something unworthy or injurious: The minister told him to eschew going to bars
euphonious :: Agreeable, pleasant, or sweet in sound: the euphonious speech of a Southern belle. Etym: E
evince :: To show openly or clearly: Her flair for color and form first evinced itself in grade-scho
exasperate :: To annoy or irrtitate to the point of losing patience: Her constant whining and complainin
excoriate :: 1] To denounce harshly. 2] scrape
excruciating :: Causing or inflicting intense pain: an excruciating toothache.
exotic :: 1] Belonging by nature or origin to another part of the world; not native: an exotic plant
expedite :: To speed up the process or progress of; facilitate: to expedite an application for a gover
expunge :: To strike out something written; delete; erase: to expunge a word from a sentence.
extricate :: To free from something that entangles, hinders, or causes disentangle, difficulties: The l
exude :: To discharge something as through pores, gashes, etc.: sweat excrete, exuding from his fac
exult :: To rejoice greatly; be jubilant: They exulted in the afterglow of victory in the crucial m
facile :: 1] Not hard to do or achieve, easy: lazy people seek facile tasks. 2] Moving, acting or wo
factitious :: Not natural or genuine or spontaneous; forced or artificial. The bogus, word differs in me
fallible :: Liable to err, to be misled, or to be wrong: Humans are fallible.
faux pas :: A French phrase that literally means a false step; a mistake or error, especially a breach
fetid :: having a foul odor, as of rot or decay: the fetid stagnant water.
fetter :: 1] A chain or other bond put about the ankles to restrain movement: a prisoner in fetters.
fiasco :: A complete or humiliating failure: The new Broadway play was a flop, fisaco.
fidelity :: 1] Faithfulness; loyalty: a husband's fidelity. 2] Truthfulness; accuracy: the fidelity of
finesse :: 1] Highly refined skill or technique: The pianist negotiated the tricky passage with fines
finite :: Having bounds or limits; not infinite: the finite human mind.
flaccid :: Lacking firmness or elasticity; limp or flabby: flaccid muscles; His leadership of the par
flagrant :: Openly disgraceful; shockingly bad: a flagrant breaking of the law.
flamboyant :: 1] Extravagantly ornate; showy: Flamboyant hair styles prevailed 1] during the reign of Lo
forfeit :: Something taken away or given up as a penalty, or the giving up or loss of something as a 
foster* :: 1] To bring up a child: She lovingly fosters both children. 2] To promote the development 
frailty :: 1] The state or quality of being delicate and weak: the frailty of a porcelian vase; the f
fritter :: To waste or squander little by little: to fritter away an inheritance.
furtive :: 1] Done in secret: She stole a furtive glance. 2] Sly: There was a furtive look about him 
gauche :: Awkward, clumsy or inept, especially in social behaviour: She frequently embarrassed by th
generic :: Having a wide, general application; not specific: mental illnesses grouped under the gener
genial :: 1] Smiling and pleasant; cheerful and friendly; kindly: she was to see us again and gave u
genteel :: 1] Belonging to or suited to polite society. 2] Polite well-bred fashionable; elegant. The
germane :: Related to what is being discussed or considered; relevant: His comments are not germane t
glean :: 1] To gather the leavings from a field after the crop has been to glean wheat. 2] To colle
glut :: 1] To stuff full of food: She glutted herself with pie. 2] To supply with an excess of any
gratuitous :: 1] Given or accepted without requirement of payment or return; gratis; free: a gratuitous 
haggard :: Having a worn or gaunt look, as from fatigue, worry, illness, hunger, etc.: haggard from a
hallowed :: 1] Made holy; consecrated: to be buried in hallowed ground. 2] Honored and regarded as hol
hapless :: Having no luck; unfortunate: a hapless child deserted by his
hedonism :: 1] The philosophical doctrine that pleasure is the only good and proper goal of moral ende
hoi polloi :: An expression taken from the Greek, meaning the common people. It is usually used in a con
homogeneous* :: All of the same or similar kind or nature
humane :: Having or characterised by kindness, sympathy, tenderness, etc.: a humane social worker wh
humdrum :: Tedious and dull: a humdrum existence that nearly drove him mad.
ignoramus :: An ignorant person: He's such an ignoramus he doesn't even know that China is in Asia.
imbue :: 1] To pervade or permeate, as with ideals, emotions, etc.: to be imbued with the spirit of
immanent :: Remaining within; inherent. In theology: the noun immanence; the prevading presence of God
imminent :: About to happen: said especially of danger or catastrophe: safety preparations against the
impassioned :: Having or showing strong feeling; passionate, fiery, ardent: The General made an impassion
impeccable :: Free from error, fault, or flaw: an impeccable dresser.
imperious :: 1] Characterised by arrogance and command: a petty official who 1] tried to compensate for
impetuous :: 1] Tending to act on sudden impulse and without forethought: an impetuous young man. 2] Re
impromptu :: Not planned ahead of time: unexpectedly beseiged by reporters, he made an impromptu speech
inane :: Stupid, silly, or pointless: an inane remark.
inclement :: 1] Bad, rough or stormy (said of the weather): The outing was 1] cancelled because of incl
incredulous :: Sceptical; not ready to believe: He stared at me incredulously when I broke the news.
inculpate :: Blame: He confessed to a plot to murder the broker.... and allege, inculpated the servant 
indigenous :: Originating or occuring naturally in the place or country where found: Koala bears are ind
inept :: 1] Not suitable or appropriate; out of place: an inept and highly tactless remark. 2] Clum
intrepid :: Unusually brave; fearless: an intrepid mountain climber attempting a peak that no one else
jaded :: Dulled or wearied, as from having too much, eating too much, satiated, drinking too much, 
jubilation :: Rejoicing; exultation: The jubilation of a candidate's supporters after he was elected.
juggernaut :: 1] Anything that exacts blind devotion or terrible sacrifice. 2] Any terrible irresistable
kaleidoscopic :: Constantly and swiftly changing like the patterns in a kaleidoscope: her kaleidoscopic moo
labyrinthine :: Pertaining to a maze, or as intricate and perplexing as a maze: a labyrinthine geometry pr
lackadaisical :: Languid; listless: Everyone moves in a lackadaisical manner in very hot weather. Also, dis
laissez faire :: Free enterprise; deregulation. Let (people) do (as they please); the policy or practice of
languid :: Lacking energy or spirit: She extended her hand in a languid weak, gesture of welcome. Lei
lascivious :: Having or arousing sexual desires: The play was denounced as lustful, being lewd and lasci
leit motif :: A recurrent theme. In music: A theme that represents a certain - person, event, emotion, o
lewd :: 1] Characterised by lust or debauchery: a lewd, evil-minded man. 2] Obscene: a lewd joke.
limbo :: An intermediate state/condition of awaiting a decision. A condition of being forgotten and
limpid :: 1] Not cloudy: a limpid pool of water. 2] Clear and simple, as in style: a writer of limpi
loath :: Very reluctant; unwilling: Many people are loath to get up early in the morning.
loathe :: To feel great hatred or disgust for: I loathe slimy snakes!
luminous* :: 1] Full of light or giving off light; glowing or shining: her luminous stars. 2] Phosphore
lurid :: 1] Vivid or glowing in color. 2] Of an unnatural glare. 3] Sensational: a magazine with lu
luxurious :: Characterised by or conducive to opulence or extreme comfort: a luxurious house complete w
macabre :: Suggesting death and decay; grim, gruesome: a macabre movie gruesome, about vampires and g
magnate :: A famous or influential or wealthy person, especially within some industry: Hearst was a n
magnum opus :: 1] A great work, especially of art or literature. 2] The most important work of an artist,
maladroit :: Unskillful, awkward, clumsy: maladroit public relations.
malediction :: The pronouncing of a curse against someone: his maledictions against his enemies.
marauder :: A person who roves and raids in search of plunder: The marauders stripped twenty farmhouse
marginalize :: 1] Exclude or ignore, especially by relegating to the outer edge of a group: It is Woodwar
mellifluous :: Sweetly or smoothly flowing: the soft unbroken rhythm of a dulect, mellifluous chant.
mellow :: 1] Ripe, soft, and with good flavour; sweet and juicy: a mellow apple. 2] Fully matured: a
mendicant :: A beggar: a mendicant beseeching passersby for money.
misconstrue :: To interpret wrongly: He misconstrued my intentions and thought I wanted to rob him instea
mordacious :: Capable of wounding
moribund :: Lacking vitality, expiring. At the point of death; dying.
mortify :: 1] To humiliate; shame: Her child's unruly behaviour mortified her. 2] To discipline the b
naive :: 1] Having an unaffected or simple nature; artless: a naive young country girl. 2] Lacking 
nefarious :: Extremely wicked; vile: a nefarious plot to overthrow the President.
nimble :: 1] Showing mental quickness. 2] Moving or acting quickly or lightly.
noxious :: Causing harm to health or morals: noxious factory fumes.
objurgate :: To scold or rebuke sharply.
obliterate :: To destroy utterly, leaving no trace; completely exterminate or wipe erase: The nuclear bo
obsolete :: Outdated or no longer used.
obtrude :: 1] To put forward unasked and unwanted; force: Don't obtrude project, your opinion on othe
obtuse :: 1] Dull-witted or insensitive; very slow or unable to perceive or 1] understand: He is too
occlude* :: To cause to become closed.
ominous :: Threatening: an ominous silence.
opportune :: 1] Especially right or fit: A patio is an opportune place for a 1] barbecue. 2] Occuring a
orotund :: 1] With a well-rounded, resonant voice: Baritones should be magniloquent orotund. 2] Pompo
override :: 1] To overrule: The chairman's veto was overridden by the annul committee. 2] To prevail o
paean :: A hymn of praise; used figuratively for any lavish praise: a paean for the superb performa
palpable :: 1] Readily perceived: There is a palpable difference between obvious, chocolate and vanill
pandemonium :: Wild disorder and uproar: The party ended in absolute pandemonium.
paradigm :: 1] A pattern, example or model. 2] An overall concept a ccepted by most people in an intel
parity :: The state or condition of being the same in power, value, rank, etc.: We must achieve pari
parochial :: Provincial; narrow-minded: His parochial prejudices included the belief that women should 
pedestrian :: 1] Going or done on foot, walking. 2] Of or for pedestrians (a pedestrian crossing). 3] La
peevish :: 1] Cross, fretful, complaining: a peevish child is unhappy. 2] Showing annoyance, irritati
penitent :: Affected by a sense of guilt and resolved to do better: He was sorry, penitent about his f
penury* :: Extreme poverty and want: The family was in a state of wretched penury.
pernicious :: Having the power to destroy or injure; a very injurious: the deadly, pernicious business o
perspicuous :: Clear in statement or expression; easily understood; lucid. Note that this word differs in
perturb :: To disquiet or disturb greatly: He was perturbed because she kept him waiting.
pinnacle :: The highest point or place: When he was elected President he knew he had reached the pinna
pithy :: Terse, meaty, and forceful: a pithy one-page summary of the pointed, complex issue.
portend :: To warn as an omen; forebode: Dark clouds portend rain.
potentate :: A possessor of power or authority: Hollywood potentates blackballed the actor.
preclude :: To render impossible by necessary consequence or implication: Our European trip precludes 
precocious :: Unusually developed or advanced, especially for one's stage: The precocious four-year-old 
presage :: A sign or warning of a future event; omen; portent augury. She could not sleep at night an
procrastinate :: To put off taking action until a future time: He procrastinated so long that he missed the
prolix :: Using too many words; too long; tedious.
prosaic :: 1] Failing to arouse animation or interest; unimaginative; dull: She was bored with her pr
proselytize :: To make a convert of: The missionaries proselytized the heathen.
protract :: To draw out or lengthen in time; prolong: to protract a visit.
proviso :: A stipulation, as in a contract or statute, limiting or modifying it, rendering it conditi
puerile :: Characterised of childhood; juvenile: the bad habit of making childish, puerile jokes.
pugnacious :: Disposed to fight; quarrelsome: a pugnacious boxer.
puissant :: Having great power or strength: I see in my mind a noble and strengthy puissant nation, ro
punctilious :: Attentive to points of etiquette, etc.: She was punctilious in setting the table for the f
qualm :: A painful feeling of uneasiness arising from a consciousness that one is or may be acting 
quandary :: A state of uncertainty; perplexing situation or position; dilemma: Having captured our men
quintessence :: 1] The purest form of some quality; pure essence. 2] The perfect example of something: Her
quizzical :: Puzzled: a quizzical glance.
racy :: 1] Vigorous, lively: a racy, unpretentious style of writing. 2] Having an agreeably peculi
raison d' etre :: Reason for being; justification for existence: Selling, after all, is their raison d'etre.
rambunctious :: 1] Wild, disorderly, boisterous, unruly etc.: The weekend bash was marked by drinking bout
rancor :: Bitter and vindictive hatred; spitefulness: He continued to bear rancor long after the qua
rapacious :: Greedy; grasping; extortionate: rapacious loan sharks.
raucous :: 1] Harsh-sounding; hoarse: a raucous laugh. 2] Boisterous; disorderly: a raucous party.
ravenous :: Violently hungry; voracious: the difficulty of feeding ten ravenous children. Etym: The ce
raw :: 1] Not processed, edited, or interpreted: raw data. 2] Inexperienced; not yet developed or
raze :: To level to the ground; demolish: The Romans razed Carthage. destroy, Spelling tip: When y
recapitulate :: To review briefly; sum up: The judge recapitulated the evidence for the jury.
recrimination :: An accusation made in answer to an accusation: The angry salesmen exchanged recriminations
rectitude :: Honesty; integrity; morality: A man of rectitude does not renege on a promise.
redoubtable :: Inspiring fear or dread; formidable: a redoubtable enemy. Etym: From the old French 'redou
remonstrate :: To plead earnestly with, as in protest or reproof: He remonstrated with the noisy children
renege :: 1] In card games to fail to follow suit when required to; revoke. 2] To fail to keep a pro
rescind :: To make void; repeal: to rescind an order.
resilient :: 1] Springing back to a former shape or position: A rubber ball is resilient. 2] Able to re
robust :: 1] Strong, healthy, sturdy: a robust person; a robust mind. 2] Suited to or requiring bodi
rudiment :: A first principle, step, stage, or condition: the rudiments of French.
sagacity :: Discernment and wisdom: the sagacity of the wise old statesmen.
salacious :: Lewd; lustful; obscene: a salacious man; a salacious joke.
salutary :: Tending to promote physical well-being; beneficial to health.
sap :: 1] A watery solution of sugars, salts, and minerals that circulates through the vascular s
sardonic :: Scornful or derisive; sneering: a sardonic expression.
sartorial :: Pertaining to men's clothes: the sartorial splendor of the Edwardian dandy.
saturnine :: Sluggish, morose, or taciturn. The saturnine young man returned to France as the dashing h
savant :: A learned person, saint, sage, eminent scholar: Saint Simon divided mankind into three cla
scintillate :: e To sparkle; glitter; twinkle: stars that scintillate in the sky. terms of etymology, 'sc
scruple :: A feeling of hesitancy, doubt, or uneasiness arising from difficulty in deciding what is r
scrupulous :: Conscientious, exact, or careful: a scrupulous person; a scrupulous account of all the exp
scurrilous :: Grossly and offensively abusive: scurrilous language; scurrilous writing.
scurry :: To move about or proceed hurriedly
seamy :: Morally degraded.
sear :: 1] Make very hot and dry. 2] Become superficially burned. 3] Cause to wither or parch from
sedate :: Calm, quiet, or composed, esp. serious and unemotional.
sedulous :: Marked by care and persistent effort.
sentient :: 1] Endowed with feeling and unstructured consciousness. 2] Consciously perceiving.
sermon :: 1] An address of a religious nature (usually delivered during a preaching, church service)
servile :: 1] Pertaining to or involving slaves. 2] Submissive or fawning in attitude or behavior.
shelve :: To lay aside, as if on a shelf; to defer: to shelve a project; to shelve a discussion.
shirk :: Avoid (one's assigned duties).
simper :: Smile affectedly or derisively.
skinflint :: A selfish person who is unwilling to give or spend.
skirmish :: A minor short-term fight. Engage in a skirmish.
slack :: A noticeable decline in performance.
slake :: 1] Satisfy (thirst). 2] Make less active or intense. 3] Cause to heat and crumble by treat
slew :: 1] A large number or amount or extent. 2] Kill intentionally and with premeditation; slay,
slippage :: 1] Failing to hold or slipping out of place. 2] Decline from a standard level of performan
sodden :: Wet through and through; thoroughly wet.
solicitous :: 1] Full of anxiety and concern. 2] Showing hovering attentiveness.
sombre :: 1] dark, gloomy; having deep shadows: A cloudy winter day is 1] murky sombre. 2] melanchol
spasmodic :: 1] Resembling a spasm: a spasmodic cough. 2] Figurative: Sudden, violent, but brief; 3] Oc
squander :: 1] Spend thoughtlessly; throw away. 2] Spend extravagantly or wastefully on.
squelch :: Suppress or crush completely.
statute :: An act passed by a legislative body. Enacted by a legislative body.
stealth :: Avoiding detection by moving carefully.
steep :: Greatly exceeding bounds of reason or moderation
stentorian :: Extremely loud: the drill sergeant's stentorian voice.
stickler :: 1] Someone who insists on something 2] Something puzzling or difficult
stratagem :: A trick or ruse to win a battle, outwit an opponent, or obtain wile, something by misleadi
stultify :: To make worthless or ineffectual; frustrate; invalidate: The system tends to stultify our 
stupefy :: To dull the senses or faculties of; stun: to be stupefied by a blow.
stygian :: Dark and dismal.
stymie :: Hinder or prevent the progress or accomplishment of-stymie.
sublimate :: 1] To purify; refine: In most of Hardy's novels set in Essex, there no attempt to sublimat
subpoena* :: A writ issued by court authority to compel the attendance of a decree, witness at a judici
subservient :: 1] Subordinate in capacity or function 2] Submissive
substantial :: 1] Fairly large 2] Of good quality and condition; solidly built; real 3] Providing abundan
summarily :: Without delay.
sumptuous :: Involving lavish expenditure; luxurious; magnificient: Our host rich, provided a sumptuous
supercilious :: Exhibiting contempt; arrogant: His supercilious behavior offended his host. Etym: Supercil
superficial :: 1] Relating to a surface 2] Of little substance or significance; not penetrating emotional
superfluous :: 1] Serving no useful purpose; having no excuse for being 2] More than is needed or desired
supine :: 1] Lying face upward 2] Offering no resistance
supplant :: Take the place or move into the position of
supplement :: Textual matter that is added onto a publication; usually at the end Add as a supplement to
supplicate :: To ask for humbly or by earnest prayer or entreaty: to supplicate mercy.
surfeit :: The state of being more than full.
surreptitious :: Done or acting secretly; underhand; clandestine: a surreptitious meeting.
surrogate :: Someone who takes the place of another person
susceptible :: Easily impressed emotionally or yielding to
suspend :: 1] Hang freely 2] Bar temporarily; from school, etc. 3] Make inoperative or stop
swerve :: An erratic deflection from an intended course. Turn sharply; change direction abruptly
synchronous :: Occurring or existing at the same time or rate
syncopated :: Cut short; abbreviated
synoptic :: 1] Presenting a summary or general view of a whole 2] Taking the same point of view.
taciturn :: Habitually silent or reserved; disinclined to conversation.
taint :: 1] Place under suspicion or cast doubt upon 2] Contaminate with a disease or morally corru
tangible :: 1] Perceptible by the senses especially the sense of touch 2] Having substance or material
tardy :: 1] Behind time; late; delayed or dilatory. 2] Slow in motion or action; sluggish: The old 
taut :: 1] Pulled or drawn tight 2] Subject to great tension 3] Marked by the efficient, sparing, 
tedium :: Boredom: There was little to relieve the tedium of his lonely days.
teetotal :: Practicing complete abstinence from alcoholic beverages
temerity :: Foolish or rash boldness, foolhardiness, recklessness: He had the temerity to propose to h
tendentious :: Marked by a strong tendency, especially a controversial one
tender :: 1] offer or present for acceptance 2] nake soft 3] showing kindness, and affection 4] sens
tentative :: 1] Unsettled in mind or opinion 2] Not fully worked out
tepid :: Moderately warm.
terse :: Short and to the point; concise: a terse comment.
thrift :: 1] Extreme care in spending money 2] Vigorous growth of living things, such as plants
thwart :: Hinder or prevent (the efforts, plans, or desires) of
timorous :: Full of, or subject to, fear; timid: The new occupants were too timorous to complain to th
toady :: A person who tries to please someone in order to gain a personal advantage.
torrid :: 1] Characterized by intense emotion 2] Rapid: Torrid downpour. 3] Burning hot
tout :: 1] Advertize in strongly positive terms 2] Show off
toy :: 1] Behave carelessly or indifferently 2] Manipulate
tranquil :: Free from disturbance or emotional agitation.
transgresion* :: * 1] The violation of a law or a duty or moral principle 2] Overstepping a limit or bounda
transitional :: Passage from one form, state, style, or place to another.
treacherous :: 1] Dangerously unstable and unpredictable: They crossed the 1] treacherous strait with gre
tremulous :: 1] Trembling; quivering: The tremulous flutter of young leaves. child's voice was tremulou
trepidation :: A feeling of alarm or dread.
truce :: A state of peace agreed to between opponents so they can discuss peace terms.
tumult :: 1] Noise or uproar; commotion: The sailor's voices could be heard above the tumult of the 
turbid :: 1] Heavy, dark, or dense, as fog 2] clouded as with sediment 3] In a state of turmoil
turbulence :: 1] Instability in the atmosphere 2] A state of violent disturbance and disorder
turgid :: 1] Unnaturally puffed out; swollen. 2] Bombastic, as language, style, etc.: a turgid speec
tyro :: Someone new to a field or activity
ulterior :: Beyond what is seen or expressed; intentionally concealed or kept in the background; hidde
unalloyed :: 1] Not in mixture with other metals; pure 2] Complete
unconventional :: al Not conforming to accepted rules or standards, whether legal, moral or social.
uncouth :: 1] Awkward, clumsy; crude, not refined: an uncouth person; discourteous uncouth manners. 2
undergird :: 1] Lend moral support to 2] Make secure underneath
undermine :: 1] To weaken, injure, or impair 2] To hollow out; dig a tunnel or mine
underrate :: Make too low an estimate of
underscore :: 1] Give extra weight to; emphasize 2] To underline
unearth :: 1] Bring to light 2] Lay bare through digging
unexceptionable :: ble Not warranting even the slightest criticism; without flaw or fault: As a method to red
unexceptional :: l Not special in any way: The appetizer was excellent but the rest the meal was unexceptio
unflappable :: Not easily excited, confused or alarmed; imperturbable: His placid unflappable poise was b
unmitigated :: Not lessened or eased: an unmitigated suffering; an unmitigated show.
unscathed :: Unharmed: Joe emerged unscathed from the fire.
unscrupulous :: Oblivious to or contemptuous of what is right or honorable
untenable :: 1] Incapable of being defended or justified (related to theories, ideas) 2] Being such tha
untoward :: 1] Not in keeping with accepted standards of what is right or in polite society 2] Contrar
upbraid :: Utter a reproach to
urbane :: Characterized by or having refinement or elegance; courteous; polite, sauve: the urbane ma
usurp :: To seize and hold wrongfully; take possession of by force: The snatch military junta usurp
usury :: 1] An exorbitant or unlawful rate of interest 2] The act of lending money at an exorbitant
vacuous :: Life showing no thought or intelligence; stupid, foolish: the blank, vacuous life.
vapid :: Without liveliness or flavor; insipid; flat and dull: her vapid chatter.
variegated :: Having variety in form, character, etc. The variegated architecture of this Mediterranean 
vegetate :: 1] To grow or develop as plants do: one really lives nowhere; one 2] does but vegetate. 2]
vehement :: 1] Passionate or ardent; intense; fervent: his vehement protestations of innocence. 2] Ful
venal :: Capable of being corrupted
veneer :: To conceal, as something common, with a deceptively attractive furbish, outward show
verbiage :: Excess of word; wordiness: A simple idea buried under much verbosity, verbiage.
verdant :: 1] Green with vegetation 2] Lacking experience or sophistication; naive
verisimilar :: Appearing to be true or real.
veritable :: Not counterfeit or copied; genuine: He discovered a veritable authentic, treasure trove in
vertigo :: 1] A reeling sensation; feeling about to fall 2] A confused, disoriented state of mind
vicious :: Brutal, strongly spiteful; savage and dangerous: A dictator's vicious love of power; the c
vigilant :: Carefully observant; on the lookout for possible danger
violate :: 1] Act in disregard of laws and rules 2] To harm or destroy 3] spoil the sacred character 
virulent :: 1] Exceedingly harmful, poisonous, or infectious: The family was plagued by a virulent dis
vitiate :: 1] To make imperfect, faulty or impure; spoil, corrupt: Pollution from smoke and dust viti
vivid :: Having the clarity and freshness of immediate experience
voluptuary :: A person who gives himself up to sensual pleasures and luxury.
voracious :: 1] Excessively greedy and grasping 2] Having or marked by an insatiable appetite for an ac
vulnerable :: 1] Capable of being wounded or hurt 2] Susceptible to criticism or persuasion or temptatio
waffle :: Pause or hold back in uncertainty or unwillingness.
waft :: 1] Be driven or carried along, as by the air 2] Blow gently
wag :: A witty, amusing person who makes jokes.
waive :: 1] To give up a claim to: to waive an option on a piece of land. 2] To put off; postpone; 
wane :: 1] To lose size; become smaller: The moon wanes after it has diminish become full. 2] To l
wanton :: 1] Undisciplined; unmanageable (a wanton child). 2] Sexually loose or unrestrained (a want
warrant :: To guarantee or attest to the character, quality, accuracy, or condition of.
waver :: 1] Pause or hold back in uncertainty 2] Move hesitatingly 3] Move to and fro
wile :: A sly trick; deceitful artifice, stratagem.
wilful :: 1] Done by design or with a purpose 2] Habitually disposed to disobedience and opposition
winsome :: Attractive in a sweet, engaging way; charming: a winsome girl, a winsome smile.
wither :: Lose freshness, vigor, or vitality
woeful :: Accompanied by or causing misery; direful; regrettable: They lived in such woeful poverty.
xenophobe :: A person who hates or distrusts strangers or foreigners.
yahoo :: a person who is variously thought of as coarse, uneducated, rustic, oaf, bumpkin unrefined
yield :: 1] Produce, give forth, or give in return: The soil yields good crops; generate His invest
yokel :: A person living in a rural area; country bumpkin.
zealous :: Filled with or incited by great interest and devotion: zealous earnest, fervent, workers.
zeitgeist :: (German: Pronounced Tsit'gist): the spirit of the age; the trend of - thought and feeling 
zenith :: 1] The point of heavens that is directly overhead, and opposite to summit the nadir. 2] Th
zephyr :: 1] The west wind. 2] Any soft, gentle and lightweight worsted or woollen yarn.
